<!DOCTYPE html><html><head><meta charset="utf-8"><title>Problem Solving and Being Lazy</title><style></style></head><body>
<h1 id="problem-solving-and-being-lazy">Problem Solving and Being Lazy</h1>
<h4 id="the-golden-rules-of-software-engineering-">The golden rules of <em>Software Engineering</em></h4>
<p>So we had our first session of Software Engineering today with <em>Sir</em> Billy. He told us about what he believes to be the most important rules in the Software Engineering.</p>
<h5 id="-rule-1-problem-solving-"><em>Rule 1. Problem Solving</em></h5>
<p>The first such rule was being able to divide a huge task into <strong>small, simple problems</strong> that you can solve one at time. He stressed the importance of being as explicit as possible about what these smaller tasks are, what they mean in the context of the larger problem, and how far through said tasks you are. In doing this, you enable your future self to return to whatever task you&#39;re trying to achieve and still have some sort of idea of whatever on Earth you were trying to do.</p>
<p>He used a rather apt analogy to explain this idea; spinning multiple plates on sticks. Imagine you&#39;ve started a bunch of plates to spin atop their respective sticks and you have to keep spinning each one, making sure none fall down. If you come back the next day, a few might have fallen by then but maybe some are still going if you&#39;re just <em>that</em> good at plate spinning. However, you go off on a month long holiday and return to these place and whoops, they&#39;ve all fallen and shattered, resting in pieces (haha, get it?) on the floor. With problem solving, if you come back to your task in the future you might have forgotten all of your problems that you set yourself to accomplish, and you may as well start over. But if you instead make a list of these problems and tick them off as you go, it&#39;s going to be a hell of a lot easier to get back into the swing of things again.</p>
<h5 id="-rule-2-being-lazy-"><em>Rule 2. Being Lazy</em></h5>
<p>Now there is a slight caviet to this rule, it&#39;s that you&#39;re not <em>really</em> being lazy - this rule doesn&#39;t mean you show up to work an hour late and sit on Reddit for half of your work hours, as much as we&#39;d all love that. No, instead this can be translated to a question.</p>
<blockquote>
<p>How can I solve this problem as amazingly as possible, as easily as possible?</p>
</blockquote>
<p>You don&#39;t want to give yourself unnecessary work when you could be doing something else, but you still want to make something that works. If someone else has already made and shared something that conveniently solves your problem, then use it! There&#39;s no need to start from scratch if the foundations are available to you. Furthermore, try not to <em>prematurely optimise</em> your work. This is when you have a script that functions exactly as intended, yet you still feel compelled to make it simple and pretty and nice. Well don&#39;t, there&#39;s no need and you&#39;re just wasting time.</p>
<p>Boom, you just became a software engineer. You&#39;re welcome.</p>

</body></html>